---
layout: post
title: "Advent of Code 2023"
lead: "The Algorithmic Advent Calendar: My First Advent of Code"
---

For programmers looking to refine their problem-solving abilities during the holiday season, [Advent of Code 2023](https://adventofcode.com/2023) presents a compelling platform. This annual online event delivers a series of daily coding challenges accompanied by a Christmas-themed story throughout the month of December, encouraging the development of algorithmic proficiency and the exploration of diverse programming techniques.

The flexibility of Advent of Code is one of its key selling points. Puzzles cater to a range of expertise, starting with straightforward puzzles and ending with more complex and abstract puzzles. While programmatic solutions are implied, the core objective is ultimately to derive the correct answer (an integer) from the provided (and often large) input data. For those seeking a competitive edge, a leaderboard tracks the fastest submissions.

While some participants leverage their preferred programming language, some also use this opportunity to challenge themselves with a new language, using the event as a learning experience. This past December, I had the opportunity to participate in Advent of Code for the first time. It proved to be a valuable and fun exercise, strengthening my algorithmic problem solving tools. Utilizing my most comfortable language, Python, I was able to learn plenty of new techniques, engage with the community on applicable algorithms, and hone my coding skills. Some challenges left me pondering for days, while others clicked with instant pattern recognition. For accessibility, I've compiled all my solutions into a public [GitHub repository](https://github.com/edwardkong/aoc) and categorized them by problem domain for those seeking to focus on specific areas.

Advent of Code 2024 promises another exciting challenge. Next year, I'm torn between diving into a new language to expand my skillset or competing on the leaderboards. Regardless of the path, Advent of Code will undoubtedly be another enriching learning experience. If you're a coder looking for a fun holiday challenge to sharpen your skills, I highly recommend participating in Advent of Code!